
# Logger   
## Add logging to your applications 
--------------------------------------------------------------

- Version 1.0.8 - Updated Feb 18, 2022

- Developed using C#

- Author: **Cameron Landers**

    - __LinkedIN profile:__ https://www.linkedin.com/in/cameronlandersexperience/
 
    - __Web Site:__ https://conversiondynamics.com

    - __Email:__ support@conversiondynamics.com.

- __LICENSE:__  Free and Open Source. No restrictions. 

- Please credit the author by including the above information in your distributions or documentation.


--------------------------------------------------------------
  
## What is Logger?
Logger is a simple and useful class you can add to your C# programs or ASP.NET web applications to provide an easy-to-use logging feature that you can call from any method in your code. 

## Where can I use Logger?

Because Logger utilizes Windows environment variables, it is limited to Microsoft&reg; Windows&reg; operating systems. The source code can easily be modified to omit or replace these variables, which would allow its use on any other operating system or framework that supports C#, such as anywhere that the open source, cross-platform version of .NET (Dotnet) can be used. 

>Caveat: Logger.cs also uses System.IO to write to the log files. This may need to be modified for other operating systems.

## Files in the distribution 

- `ILogger.cs` - The source code for the ILogger interface. 
- `Logger.cs` - The source code for the Logger class, which implements the ILogger interface. 
- `LoggerTest` - A folder containing a sample .NET Console Application for testing Logger.
- `Readme.md` - This file
 
## How To Use Logger
After adding the Logger.cs class to your application, the first thing you will want to do is to update it to replace the sample log path directory name in the Logger.cs class with your chosen log file location. See the _logFilePath class-level variable near the top of Logger.cs for the exact location where you need to make this change. 

- If you want to use the standard CommonApplicationData location, all you should have to do is replace the string, "LoggerTest" with your actual application name, or whatever you want to name your folder under the CommonApplicationData location for your application.
- You will also want to change the namespace in Logger.cs and ILogger.cs to match your namespace.

You can make calls to the logger class through the `AppendLog` method. The following snippet illustrates the minimum code required for the method call:

__Example Usage:__

    Logger logger = new Logger();
    logger.Message = "This is a test of the Logger class.";
    logger.AppendLog();

This will result in the following log entry (obviously your date/time will be different):

2/18/2023 12:09:54 PM: [info] This is a test of the Logger class.

The logged entry will include the current date and timestamp in the timezone where Logger is called. You can modify it to use the client timezone if you plan to call Logger from a web application. 

> Note that there is an optional "Category" property that you can use if you would like your log entries to include some sort of categorized flag for importance or other designating verb, to make it easy to see certain types of entries in the log. For example, you might use flags like "info", "ERROR", "Login", etc. Whatever you want to include can be specified in this optional property prior to calling the `AppendLog` method.

Here's an example specifying the Category property:

    Logger logger = new Logger
    {
        Message = "This is an example log entry for an error condition.",
        Category = "!ERROR"
    };
    logger.AppendLog();

This woud result in the following log entry:

    2/18/2023 12:54:42 PM: [!ERROR] This is an example log entry for an error condition.

### More Example Output

Just to show a bit more of what the log looks like, the snippet below is an excerpt from a sample log file generated by the Logger class recently. In the first entry, the method call omitted the Category property, so the default value (`[info]`) was rendered. In both subsequent entries, the Category property was specified as shown. 

    2/18/2023 12:09:54 PM: [info] This is a test of the Logger class.
    2/18/2023 12:13:57 PM: [Login] This is a test of passing a user login event to the Logger class.
    2/18/2023 12:16:15 PM: [test] This is a test of the Logger class.

You can log any kind of message, formatted any way you like. This output is just based on some tests I was running at the time. 


---
[eof]  

  